---
layout: post
title: Travis CI
---

>**Travis CI** is _hosted,distributed,continous integration_ service used to build & test **software projects** on **_Github_**.
 

>To ensure that they run unit test against _every build_ a **practise of continous integration** is followed that comprises of tools like _Travis CI or Jenkins_ etc.

>**Contionous integration** is a _software development_ practice that is based on _continous integration_ of the code into shared repository.Every commit is then verified by **automated build**.
  
>The **major ajenda** is to identitfy the problem during the _development process_ as early as possible,therefore should be integrated on regular basis.So,the developers spend more time on adding features then debugging it.

>There is also an alternative to set-up an inspection of the code-style which helps to minimize the effort of the person who is reviewing the code  style & hence enhances the quality of the code & saves time.

***Deployment to GH-Pages With Travis CI***
_From JEKYLL only_
  - Step-1:  Once RubyGems is installed, the following steps will install Jekyll and create the scaffold for a new Jekyll site in the Demo/ directory:

gem install jekyll jekyll new Demo(Demo is a variable)
 Bundle will get installed and newly made JEKYLL site will be in home/sirius(pc-name)/Demo

  - Step-2: move into the newly made Demo Directory by  writing "cd Demo" command in terminal and also perform the git initial commands:
       - git init
       - git add
       - git commit and push (don't forget to check the git status after every changes that are that'll help in keeping the track of the things .
 
And after that when ls command is executed we'll find all the Gemfiles and config file entact.

  - Step-3: In the Config file some changes can be made by choice and the execulded part that is commented in the config file is then removed.
***remember that there should be no space left between the exculded part and the starting.***

  - Step-4: Include a .travis.yml file which should be include the following:
     1 The language you are working on(here ruby).
     2 rvm - the version. 
     3 Script
     4 Branches
     5 Enviornment
***remember in enviornment there should be an encryption key and don't forget to do sudo - _false_.***
  
  - Step-5: Now create a deploy script.
  
  - Step-6 :Then add the encrypted credentials 
    1 Generate a ssH Key.
    2 add it to the https://github.com/<your name>/<your repo>/settings/Keys.
   ***Generate a public/private key by***
   ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "your_github_email@example.com"
 
  - Step-7: Create  a new Repository in github but ***without readme*** 
    then git remote origin master and fix the ssh Key then git add ,(see git sta    tus in between the add and commit) then git push origin master
    Again coming back on Github in Setting > Deploykey > Add a deploykey
    then it'll ask for the place to enter the key it'll say deploy_key
   
***Remember - Make sure to add <deploy_key.enc> to git repository and _not to add deploy_key to the git repo. Then open the deploy_key.pub with gedit***.
   Here you'll find the key.Copy and paste it in the deploy_key > setting in git. 
 Some digits will appear  and now we've to encrypt that .For encrypting,Encrypt the generated deploy key with the Travis client by ***travis encrypt-file deploy_key --add*** in the terminal .
 
  - Step-8: Whatever comes inside $encrypted <no> key should be added in the .travis.yml file.
 
  - Step-9: Add the deploy key to gitignore.

  - Step-10: Select gh-pages branch in Github

    Go to the settings page of your repo in Github https://github.com/<your name    >/<your repo>/settings/ and locate tht section Github Pages. In the Source o    ption select from the dropdown menu: gh-pages branch.

***Now every time you make a git push to the master branch of the Github repo, Travis will automatically generate the site and push it back to the gh-pages branch, so your site should be always live with the latest changes.***
   
  - Step-11: See the status and then git add, commit  and git push origin master Finally check on travis .

- References: Auto-deploying built products to gh-pages with Travis
(https://simpleit.rocks/automated-deployment-of-jekyll-websites-to-github-pages-with-a-git-push-to-github/)
  

                             HOW IT WORKS


  - Developers scrutinize the code locally on the computer.

  - When inspection completes, the changes are commited to the respective repositories

  - Then the repository sends the request to CI system.

  - CI system runs the job (test,coverage,check-syntax & stuff).
  
  - CI releases saved artifacts for testing.

  - If build fails then, CI sever reports it to the team 

  - The team then fixes it.


