---
layout: post
title: What is jekyll?
---
   
> Previously,people used to depend upon newspapers and magazines for latest updates. But,in this _Tech-savy_ world we want everything in instant of time.So,now updates and news comes in handy way such as blogs and posts which can be read and updated continously and instantly.And its then we require a tool that simplify our work. Jekyll  is one of those tools.
      
   JEKYLL is a  flexible ,simple blog-aware static site generator. It also supports **front-end framework** such as _Bootstrap_. the best part about using jekyll is it is content cenyric ,so we all we have to is to focus on our conteent and forget the rest. so the blogger can focus on the content rather than the design.it also supports free hosting on github.it also gives the benifit to the content editors to write posts without knowing much to code.It is written in Ruby.It started a web-development fashion towards toi static site generator

**Getting Started**

The simplest way to install Jekyll is through RubyGems.RubyGems is available for most GNU/Linux distributions; Once RubyGems is installed, the following steps will install Jekyll and create the scaffold for a new Jekyll site in the Demo/ directory:

gem install jekyll jekyll new Demo

You can create as many directories as you want, and Jekyll will scan them for .md and .html files. Other Markdown files reside in the (_posts)_ directory; they are handled to provide features specific to blogs, such as post dates and categories.

Each source file consists of a front matter describing the characteristics of the page, followed by the page content in Markdown or HTML format. 
Everything between the --- is the front matter. It is written in YAML, a human-readable format that Jekyll uses for structured data. The front matter rarely if ever uses fancy YAML features.

To generate a page, Jekyll takes a layout from the theme's template (in this case, the "page" layout) and merges it with the data from the front matter and the page content. The front matter also tells Jekyll where to put the result (in this case, in /about/index.html).

Now enter the directory, type bundle exec jekyll serve (if you work on multiple websites, bundle exec ensures that you use the right version of Jekyll), and point your web browser to http://127.0.0.1:4000/. 

**Configuration**

Among the files created by jekyll init is (_config.yml)_, which provides global configuration to Jekyll. Like the front matter, this file is in YAML format.

The Jekyll documentation explains the various settings in detail.

**Setup Jekyll in local**

   1 First, you will need to install Ruby. If you don’t have it yet, follow this tutorial.

   2 You will also need Bundler so if you don’t have it installed yet, run gem install bundler.

   3 Now, let’s install Jekyll. We’re going to use a Gem named gitHub-pages which comes with Jekyll and all the required tools. Let’s install this gem with gem install github-pages.



**Pros**

    1 Totally Free
    2 Super fast (only static files)
    3 Easy to make changes (edit, commit & push)

**Cons**

    1 A bit of tech knowledge is required
    2 Need to pay for a domain name (to avoid the url myblog.github.io)
    3 Have to use Disqus for comments


